README.md, before:

# 🇷🇺 Awesome Made in Russia [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> Curating the best projects that were made and mainly contributed by Russian developers

## > 30k ★

- **[Fira Code](https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  Free monospaced font with programming ligatures.
  
- **[Kotlin](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin)** by [JetBrains](https://github.com/JetBrains)  
  Programming language.

- **[Redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/redux)** by [Dan Abramov](https://github.com/gaearon)  
  Predictable state container for JavaScript apps.

- **[The Fuck](https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck)** by [Vladimir Iakovlev](https://github.com/nvbn)  
  Magnificent app which corrects your previous console command.

## > 10k ★

- **[Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  PostCSS plugin to parse CSS and add vendor prefixes to CSS rules using values from Can I Use.
  
- **[ClickHouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse)** by [Yandex](https://github.com/yandex)  
  A free analytics DBMS for big data.
  
- **[Core JS](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)** by [Denis Pushkarev](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)  
  Modular standard library for JavaScript.
  
- **[Framework7](https://github.com/framework7io/framework7)** by [Vladimir Kharlampidi](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)  
  Full featured HTML framework for building iOS & Android apps.
  
- **[Highlight.js](https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js)** by [Ivan Sagalaev](https://github.com/isagalaev)  
  JavaScript syntax highlighter.
  
- **[Nginx](https://github.com/nginx/nginx)** by [Igor Sysoev](https://github.com/igorsysoev)  
  Not Apache.
  
- **[PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  Tool for transforming styles with JS plugins.
  
- **[Swiper](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)** by [Vladimir Kharlampidi](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)  
  Most modern mobile touch slider with hardware accelerated transitions.

## > 3k ★

- **[AnyBar](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  A small indicator for macOS menubar.

- **[Browserslist](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  The config to share target browsers and Node.js versions between different front-end tools.

- **[CatBoost](https://github.com/catboost/catboost)** by [Yandex](https://github.com/yandex)  
  A fast, scalable, high performance Gradient Boosting on Decision Trees library, used for ranking, classification, regression and other ML tasks.

- **[CSSO](https://github.com/css/csso)** by [Roman Dvornov](https://github.com/lahmatiy)  
  CSS minifier with structural optimizations.
  
- **[DataScript](https://github.com/tonsky/datascript)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  An immutable in-memory database and Datalog query engine in Clojure and ClojureScript.

- **[Emmet](https://github.com/emmetio/emmet)** by [Sergey Chikuyonok](https://github.com/sergeche)  
  A web-developer’s toolkit for boosting HTML & CSS code writing.

- **[Konva](https://github.com/konvajs/konva)** by [Anton Lavrenov](https://github.com/lavrton)  
  An HTML5 Canvas JavaScript framework that extends the 2d context by enabling canvas interactivity for desktop and mobile applications.

- **[Lint staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged)** by [Andrey Okonetchnikov](https://github.com/okonet)  
  Tool for running linters on Git staged files.
  
- **[Nano ID](https://github.com/ai/nanoid)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  A tiny (108 bytes), secure, URL-friendly, unique string ID generator.

- **[Shower](https://github.com/shower/shower)** by [Vadim Makeev](https://github.com/pepelsbey)  
  HTML presentation engine.

- **[Size Limit](https://github.com/ai/size-limit)** by by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  A tool for JavaScript that checks every commit on CI, calculates the real cost of JS for end-users and throws an error if the cost exceeds the limit.

## > 1k ★

- **[Effector](https://github.com/zerobias/effector)** by [Dmitry Boldyrev](https://github.com/zerobias/effector)  
  An effective multi-store state manager for JavaScript apps.
  
- **[Fotorama](https://github.com/artpolikarpov/fotorama)** by [Artem Polikarpov](https://github.com/artpolikarpov)  
  A simple, stunning, powerful jQuery gallery.

- The place for your next great pet project!
  
## But why?

Actually, a lot of developers in Russia do not know about these projects and the fact that their authors are also Russian or post USSR programmers.

It warms your heart when you understand that a lot of highly popular and useful projects are made by “cold and gloomy” Russians.

The trigger is [this tweet](https://twitter.com/fobbyal/status/1290311704803340288) by [@fobbyal](https://github.com/fobbyal):

> Is there a cool open source project mainly contributed by Russian developers?

The goal of the project is to highlight how modern IT is a product of global culture. There are many different nations in your `package-lock.json`, or `Gemfile.lock`, or elsewhere. And we are highlighting the Russian part just because we know it better. ([#2](https://github.com/igoradamenko/awesome-made-in-russia/issues/2))

## Contributing 

It's hard to calculate project popularity so we use stars as a measurement. It's not quite fair, but it is what we have here on Github.

If you want to add project to this list, please, make sure that:

1. The project was created by the developer born in Russia or self-indicate themself as a part of Russian ethnicity.
2. The project has more that 1000 stars on Github.

If they do, feel free to make a PR!

(Please, check twice that you have picked the correct category and added the project according to alphabetical order.)

Commit message:

Add IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition

README.md, after:

# 🇷🇺 Awesome Made in Russia [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> Curating the best projects that were made and mainly contributed by Russian developers

## > 30k ★

- **[Fira Code](https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  Free monospaced font with programming ligatures.
  
- **[Kotlin](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin)** by [JetBrains](https://github.com/JetBrains)  
  Programming language.

- **[Redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/redux)** by [Dan Abramov](https://github.com/gaearon)  
  Predictable state container for JavaScript apps.

- **[The Fuck](https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck)** by [Vladimir Iakovlev](https://github.com/nvbn)  
  Magnificent app which corrects your previous console command.

## > 10k ★

- **[Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  PostCSS plugin to parse CSS and add vendor prefixes to CSS rules using values from Can I Use.
  
- **[ClickHouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse)** by [Yandex](https://github.com/yandex)  
  A free analytics DBMS for big data.
  
- **[Core JS](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)** by [Denis Pushkarev](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)  
  Modular standard library for JavaScript.
  
- **[Framework7](https://github.com/framework7io/framework7)** by [Vladimir Kharlampidi](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)  
  Full featured HTML framework for building iOS & Android apps.
  
- **[Highlight.js](https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js)** by [Ivan Sagalaev](https://github.com/isagalaev)  
  JavaScript syntax highlighter.
  
- **[IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition](https://github.com/JetBrains/intellij-community)** by [JetBrains](https://github.com/JetBrains)  
  The open source version of IntelliJ IDEA, a premier IDE for Java, Groovy and other programming languages such as Scala or Clojure.
  
- **[Nginx](https://github.com/nginx/nginx)** by [Igor Sysoev](https://github.com/igorsysoev)  
  Not Apache.
  
- **[PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  Tool for transforming styles with JS plugins.
  
- **[Swiper](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)** by [Vladimir Kharlampidi](https://github.com/nolimits4web/swiper)  
  Most modern mobile touch slider with hardware accelerated transitions.

## > 3k ★

- **[AnyBar](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  A small indicator for macOS menubar.

- **[Browserslist](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  The config to share target browsers and Node.js versions between different front-end tools.

- **[CatBoost](https://github.com/catboost/catboost)** by [Yandex](https://github.com/yandex)  
  A fast, scalable, high performance Gradient Boosting on Decision Trees library, used for ranking, classification, regression and other ML tasks.

- **[CSSO](https://github.com/css/csso)** by [Roman Dvornov](https://github.com/lahmatiy)  
  CSS minifier with structural optimizations.
  
- **[DataScript](https://github.com/tonsky/datascript)** by [Nikita Prokopov](https://github.com/tonsky)  
  An immutable in-memory database and Datalog query engine in Clojure and ClojureScript.

- **[Emmet](https://github.com/emmetio/emmet)** by [Sergey Chikuyonok](https://github.com/sergeche)  
  A web-developer’s toolkit for boosting HTML & CSS code writing.

- **[Konva](https://github.com/konvajs/konva)** by [Anton Lavrenov](https://github.com/lavrton)  
  An HTML5 Canvas JavaScript framework that extends the 2d context by enabling canvas interactivity for desktop and mobile applications.

- **[Lint staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged)** by [Andrey Okonetchnikov](https://github.com/okonet)  
  Tool for running linters on Git staged files.
  
- **[Nano ID](https://github.com/ai/nanoid)** by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  A tiny (108 bytes), secure, URL-friendly, unique string ID generator.

- **[Shower](https://github.com/shower/shower)** by [Vadim Makeev](https://github.com/pepelsbey)  
  HTML presentation engine.

- **[Size Limit](https://github.com/ai/size-limit)** by by [Andrey Sitnik](https://github.com/ai)  
  A tool for JavaScript that checks every commit on CI, calculates the real cost of JS for end-users and throws an error if the cost exceeds the limit.

## > 1k ★

- **[Effector](https://github.com/zerobias/effector)** by [Dmitry Boldyrev](https://github.com/zerobias/effector)  
  An effective multi-store state manager for JavaScript apps.
  
- **[Fotorama](https://github.com/artpolikarpov/fotorama)** by [Artem Polikarpov](https://github.com/artpolikarpov)  
  A simple, stunning, powerful jQuery gallery.

- The place for your next great pet project!
  
## But why?

Actually, a lot of developers in Russia do not know about these projects and the fact that their authors are also Russian or post USSR programmers.

It warms your heart when you understand that a lot of highly popular and useful projects are made by “cold and gloomy” Russians.

The trigger is [this tweet](https://twitter.com/fobbyal/status/1290311704803340288) by [@fobbyal](https://github.com/fobbyal):

> Is there a cool open source project mainly contributed by Russian developers?

The goal of the project is to highlight how modern IT is a product of global culture. There are many different nations in your `package-lock.json`, or `Gemfile.lock`, or elsewhere. And we are highlighting the Russian part just because we know it better. ([#2](https://github.com/igoradamenko/awesome-made-in-russia/issues/2))

## Contributing 

It's hard to calculate project popularity so we use stars as a measurement. It's not quite fair, but it is what we have here on Github.

If you want to add project to this list, please, make sure that:

1. The project was created by the developer born in Russia or self-indicate themself as a part of Russian ethnicity.
2. The project has more that 1000 stars on Github.

If they do, feel free to make a PR!

(Please, check twice that you have picked the correct category and added the project according to alphabetical order.)
